---
id: PlatON_Overview_DevGuide
title: Development guide
sidebar_label: Development guide
---



PlatON integrates the WASM virtual machine based on the inheritance of Ethernet EVM to support more advanced development languages, lower the learning threshold of contracts, and improve the performance of contract transaction processing. Developers can easily and quickly write, debug, and deploy DAPP, contracts, and other applications in PlatON.

## What is Dapp?

Dapp, or Decentralized Application, is a decentralized application built on the blockchain.

## How to develop Dapp?

From the developer's point of view, a Dapp application is essentially a process of interacting with a contract. You can call the contract directly through the web side, or you can interact with the contract through SDKs. The whole development process is roughly divided into three major processes: environment preparation, contract development, front-end and back-end development.

### Development environment preparation

- [Private Network](/docs/en/Build_Private_Chain)-Build a private node or network locally, which can help you quickly develop and debug local applications.
- [Development Network](/docs/en/Join_Dev_Network) - Access to a development network can help test your code in a more open environment.
- [Main Network](#)-When you are done testing on the private and development networks, you can seamlessly migrate to the PlatON main network and start using the application seamlessly.

### Contract Development

PlatON supports dual virtual machines, Wasm and EVM, so developers can choose their contract development language based on their area of expertise.

#### Solidity Contract Development

 - [Getting Started with Development](/docs/en/Solidity_Dev_Manual) - You can learn how to deploy, compile, publish, and invoke contracts on the PlatON network
- [Best Practices](/docs/en/Solidity_Contract_Best_Practice) - How to set reasonable fees, how to avoid deducting fees for failed transactions, and other contract writing specifications
- [Development Costs](docs/en/Solidity_Contract_Dev_Costs)-Introduce the cost of fees for Slolidity contract deployment calls on PlatON and the comparison analysis with Ether fees.
- [Security Guide](/docs/en/Solidity_Contract_Security_Dev_Guide)-Introduces how to improve the security of contracts
- [Contract Migration](/docs/en/Solidity_Contract_Migrate)-In addition to writing your own contracts, you can also migrate contracts from Ether or other public chains that support Solidity contracts to PlatON network

#### WASM Contract Development
WASM contract currently only supports `C++` language development, you are welcome to continue to extend the contract in other major languages.

- [Getting Started with Development](/docs/en/Solidity_Dev_Manual)-Introducing how to compile and publish calls to Wasm contracts on PlatON 
- [Development Costs](/docs/en/Solidity_Contract_Dev_Costs)-Introduce the cost of Wasm contract deployment invocation on PlatON and the comparison analysis with Ether contract fees
- Best Practices](/docs/en/Solidity_Contract_Best_Practice)-Introduction to how to set reasonable fees, how to avoid deducting fees for failed transactions, and other contract writing specifications
- [Contract Library](/docs/en/Wasm_Contract_API)


### Front-end or back-end development

The PlatON network uses [wagon](https://github.com/go-interpreter/wagon) as another smart contract virtual machine for PlatON. As a virtual machine of PlatON, it needs to be modified. Realize the external functions on the chain and the calculation method of GAS. Wasm contracts support more high-level language development, and they are eventually compiled into wasm for execution.


[3、Privacy-Preserving Computing](/docs/en/Secure_Multi_Party_Computation#introduction-to-mpc)

PlatON implements a privacy contract solution based on a secure multi-party computing cryptographic algorithm. The main idea is to publish the private computing algorithm through a contract, and the data provider and computing nodes that require privacy protection will cooperate to execute the MPC protocol to achieve data Collaborative computing



4、[Account Model]()

PlatON chooses mature and stable account models that support smart contracts. In PlatON, each account has a state associated with it and a 20-byte address. There are two types of accounts:

- Ordinary account：Controlled by the private key, users can generate it through the wallet client or the command line. In PlatON, ordinary accounts can create transactions and use private keys to sign transactions.

- Contract account：There is no private key, it is controlled by code, and the contract account address is generated when the contract is deployed. Unlike ordinary accounts, contract accounts cannot initiate new transactions on their own. Whenever a contract account receives a message, the code inside the contract is activated, allowing it to read and write to internal storage, and send other messages or create a contract.

  

[5、Consensus mechanism](/docs/en/PlatON_Solution#summary)

PlatON uses a BFT-like PoS mechanism. PlatON consensus operation is divided into 3 stages.

   1: The Election of Alternative Validators；2: The Selection of Validators by the VRF；3: Validators Run CBFT



[6、Economic Solution](/docs/en/Economic_Model#platons-economic-design-goals)

PlatON's economic design has the following goals:

First, choose PoS. We believe that PoW's energy consumption is too high. Faced with real-world energy constraints, PoW's market share cannot grow indefinitely. PlatON's consensus algorithm is called PPoS (PlatON PoS).

Second, reduce consensus costs. PPoS uses off-chain identity and credit mechanisms and programmatic arrangements, but reduces the reliance on them through the randomness introduced by VRF. This can effectively suppress bribery and collusion.

Third, strengthen the coupling relationship between the economic activities in the public blockchains and the economic activities supported by the public blockchain (that is, data and computing power circulation markets) to provide support for the value of the token.

Fourth, endogenously inhibit the expansion of the PPoS mining pool.



[7、Governance Mechanism](/docs/en/PlatON_Governance_Solution#platon-governance-mechanism)

In PlatON governance, we have adopted a combination of direct and indirect democracy. Its core principles are: in the normal state, voting by the validator, that is, indirect democracy; under major differences, voting by the community, which is direct democracy.



[8、GAS](/docs/en/Economic_Model#transaction-fees)

Every application running on Platon consumes resources (computing power, bandwidth, storage, data, etc.).In order to realize the fair and reasonable use of resources and avoid the abuse of resources, the GAS mechanism of Ethereum is adopted to realize the reasonable scheduling and validity verification of resources.



In this article, I focus on the guidelines that Platon developers are interested in

[1、Setting up the development environment](/docs/en/Install_PlatON)；

[2、PlatON Development Network；](/docs/en/Become_PlatON_Dev_Verification)

[3、Receive Test Token](/docs/en/PlatON_Dev_Faucet)；

[4、Node Tools Guide；](/docs/en/OnLine_MTool_Manual )

[5、Development  WASM/JVM；](/docs/en/EVM_Smart_Contract )

[6、API and SDK documentation。]( /docs/en/Java_SDK )



Before you start using the Platon development network, you should note the following:

1、The development network is only used for development and testing;

2、There is no value in developing online tokens, so please pay attention to fraud;

3、The development network will be reset and updated based on the development status, so all tokens or states on the chain will be cleared after the Platon development network is reset.



#### TOKEN STANDARDS：

1、[PRC 20](/docs/en/Solidity_Contract_Dev_Costs#large-sized-contract)：A standard interface for alternative (interchangeable) tokens, such as voting tokens, betting tokens, or virtual currencies.Platon introduces the standard for replaceable tokens that make each token exactly the same (in type and value) as another token, meaning that one token will always be equal to all other tokens.



2、PRC 721：A standard interface for non-homogeneous tokens, such as art contracts or songs.PRC-721 introduces this standard for NFT, where this type of token is unique on the chain and may have a different value from another token from the same smart contract due to other reasons such as its age, rarity, or even its visual effect.



3、Privacy Token ：Privacy TOKEN contract is based on the Alaya WASM intelligence platform [PIP-13](https://github.com/AlayaNetwork/AIPs/blob/master/Alaya/AIP-13.md) tokens project proposal to build privacy.The project is intended to address the growing need for anonymity of transactions.The zero-knowledge proof algorithm achieves identity concealment, and the algorithm is plug-in to meet various privacy requirements.Support the independent issuance of privacy tokens and privatization of PRC20 assets;Using the plug-in mechanism, the algorithm can be upgraded online and the user can be upgraded without feeling.


If you want to interact with a contract or PlatON network by writing backend code, the following SDKs in different languages can help.
- [Python SDK](/docs/en/Python_SDK)
- [JAVA SDK](/docs/en/Java_SDK)


### How to publish PRC Token?

Since PlatON inherits the EVM virtual machine, theoretically it can be compatible with all the Tokens of the Ethernet standard protocol, currently the commonly used Token protocols are PRC-20 and PRC-721, please refer to [PRC Token](/docs/en/PRC_Token).

