---
id: Source_Code_Compilation
title: Source code compilation
sidebar_label: Source code compilation
---



This document is primarily a how-to guide for developers building applications on the PlatON blockchain.

- PlatON supports source code compilation and installation under Windows and Ubuntu. 

## Windows source code compilation

Windows compilation environment requirements :

- git: `2.19.1 and above`
- Go language development kit: `go (1.7+)`
- mingw: `mingw (V8.1.0)`
- cmake: `3.0 +`

You can install the above compilation environment yourself. Please make sure the above environment can run normally before compiling `PlatON` source code.

> You can also use `Chocolatey` to install the compilation environment (if you do not already have `chocolatey`, you can follow the instructions on <https://chocolatey.org> to install), start `PowerShell` as an administrator, and then execute the following command:
>
> Install git:
>
> ```
> choco install git
> ```
>
> Install golang:
>
> ```
> choco install golang
> ```
>
> Install mingw:
>
> ```
> choco install mingw
> ```
>
> Install cmake:
>
> ```
> choco install cmake
> ```
>
> Most software installed using the `chocolatey` package manager has a default installation path, and some software may have various paths, depending on the publisher of the software. Installing these packages will modify the Path environment variable. The final installation path can be viewed in the PATH. Some machine environments may not find the installation path of these tools in the PATH, and you need to add it manually at this time. After installation, please make sure the installed Go version is 1.7 (or higher).
>
> For example: After installing cmake, type cmake on the CMD command line. If you are prompted that the command cannot be found, you need to add the path where cmake is installed.

### Get the source code

Create `src/github.com/PlatONnetwork/` and `bin` directories under the current`%GOPATH% `directory, and clone the source code of` PlatON-GO` under the `PlatONnetwork` directory:

```
cd src/github.com/PlatONnetwork/;
git clone -b release-0.10.0 https://github.com/PlatONnetwork/PlatON-Go.git --recursive
```

### Compile

> The following compilation commands need to be run in the `Git-bash` environment, and the compilation environment in step 1 has been successfully installed!

Go to the source directory `PlatON-Go`:

```
cd PlatON-Go
```

Before compiling the source directory, execute the following script in the source directory `PlatON-Go` to compile the required libraries:

```
./build/build_deps.sh
```

Since the compilation depends on the bls library, PlatON-Go\crypto\bls\bls_win\lib needs to be configured into the path environment variable of the system.

Otherwise it will report `exit status 3221225781` error.

Executing the following compilation commands in the source directory `PlatON-Go` can generate` platon`, `keytool` executable files, as follows:

```
go run build/ci.go install ./cmd/platon
go run build/ci.go install ./cmd/keytool
```

After compiling, `platon`,` keytool` executable files will be generated in the` PlatON-Go/build/bin` directory. Copy these executable files to your working directory and run.

> Repeated compilation will overwrite the previously generated executable file.

## Ubuntu source code compilation	

**step1.** Ubuntu compilation environment requirements:

- System version: `Ubuntu 18.04.1 and above`
- git: `2.19.1 and above`
- Compilers: `gcc (4.9.2+)`, `g ++ (5.0+)`
- Go language development kit: `go (1.7+)`
- cmake: `3.0 +`

**step2.** Get the PlatON source:

```bash
git clone -b release-0.10.0 https://github.com/PlatONnetwork/PlatON-Go.git --recursive
```

**step3.** Install dependency library:

```bash
sudo apt update && sudo apt install golang-go cmake llvm g++ libgmp-dev libssl-dev
```

**step4.** compilation：

```bash
cd PlatON-Go && make all
```

After compiling, a series of executable files such as `platon, keytool` and so on will be generated in the `./build/bin` directory. 

**step5.** Copy binary:

```shell
sudo cp -f ./build/bin/platon /usr/bin/ && sudo cp -f ./build/bin/keytool /usr/bin/
```

To this step, congratulations, the source code compilation completed!